# Credit-Risk-Evaluation
Currently Sri Lankan economy is being under a recovery stage comparing to last year where it was a challenging year for individuals in Sri Lanka where it happened to be many kinds of downturns which drove the GDP growth rate into highly negative outcome. Further, consequently several large-scale industries were highly got affected due to the covid-19 pandemic and as well as the economic downturn in which the tourism, tea, apparel, industrial industries were highly got affected. Subsequently countries financial stability was at a huge risk where there were many rational economic policy decisions were made in order to stabilize the banking system without getting it being under bankruptcy situation, some of them were Increment of interest rates, reduction of deposit rates, imports were hold in broad scale options due to huge depreciation of Sri Lankan rupee compared to the US dollar rates. After proceeding with above decision banking system faced an issue on their existing loans and advances recovery rates. During the financial crisis situation, banks face difficulties to dispose the cost of default loans on their balance sheets as the identification of the recovery rate prior the situation is happened to be highly crucial at present. Retail banking primarily revolves around lending, which constitutes the majority of the business. Most borrowers pay back their loans on time and in full, where there are some inevitable cases where some default by failing to adhere to the repayment schedule where it is defined as the non-performing loans(NPLs).For the betterment of the banking system and to maintain the financial stability.
This study aims to identify the factors affecting non-performing loans in Sri Lankan banks under the current economic crisis, taking into account the broader economic and regulatory context and finding out solutions to reduce the risks (credit & liquidity risks) faced by banks due to increase in NPLs. The contribution of this study lies in its ability to provide insights into the current state of the Sri Lankan banking sector and the factors contributing to the high levels of non-performing loans. By identifying the factors affecting non-performing loans, this study aims to inform the development of effective strategies for reducing NPLs and improving the overall stability of the banking sector in Sri Lanka. Subsequently NPA predictive model using machine learning will be developed to forecast the NPA ratio movement in future which will be more needful in identifying the default rate prior to a unstable situation.
